In this concept, I will give you a walkthrough of Remix, the online editor.
Remix is an online tool that can be used for writing,
compiling, debugging, deploying, and also invoking smart contracts.
It also creates a simulated Ethereum network
inside your browser called the JavaScript VM.
VM stands for virtual machine.
It gives you various environment options to connect it to the world of Ethereum.
I will explain you this more in detail soon.
This is what Remix looks like when you open it up.
You will see compile, run,
debug, analysis, and testing tabs on the top.
You can create new files by clicking on the very small plus button on the very corner.
Remember, solidity files have.sol extension.
In the central area is where you write your code.
One thing I totally love about Remix is that it is a syntax checker.
It has a fantastic syntax checker,
which means that the moment you write something wrong,
it gives you red arrow right there and
detailed description about the error. Amazing feature.
From the compile tab on the top,
you can select the compiler version that you would like to use.
You can also set it for auto compile.
From the run tab and the environments,
you can choose JavaScript virtual machine,
injected the three option or the third one is the Web3 Provider option.
You can deploy your contract to
the in-browser simulator by using the JavaScript VM option.
You can use injected Web3 option to deploy your contract
to any of the public desk networks or even the main network.
This option works in conjunction with MetaMask.
You need to have MetaMask installed for this to work.
The reason this is called injected Web3 because
MetaMask injects Web3 into your browser and also hosts a node.
So, injected Web3 option lets you
connect to the Ethereum network through MetaMask's node.
Let's have a quick recap again.
You can use JavaScript VM for testing contracts.
It is very fast since there is no mining.
Injected Web3 option is used in conjunction with
MetaMask and can be used to connect to any public network.
Whichever network your MetaMask is connected to,
the injected Web3 will connect to the
same since that is being injected into your browser.
Remix also gives an option to deploy
your contract to locally running node on your computer.
You will choose the Web3 Provider option for this and we
will provide the URL or the port number for your locally running node.
In the transaction origin or the account field,
you can choose the account you want to use to deploy your contract with.
This list of accounts will change based upon the environment you are connecting to.
For the in-browser network,
you are given 10 preloaded test accounts,
and this account list will be those accounts.
If you're using injected Web3,
then this will be a list of MetaMask's account addresses.
For the Web3 Provider option,
this account list will be your locally running nodes accounts that you have.
Gas fields let you specify the amount of gas that you want to use for this transaction.
In the value field,
you will provide the amount of ether you wanted to send along with the transaction.
Moving on, you can deploy a contract
by using any of these environments using the deploy tab.
You can also pass constructor arguments right here when you initiate a contract.
If you are connecting using the injected Web3 option,
you will get a confirmation screen from MetaMask to accept the usage of gas charges.
Once deployed, you will see a list of functions on the side.
Right? If you look on the right side,
you will see a list of functions that are all available on the contract.
Now, you can interact with all these functions and pass arguments.
If the argument that you are passing is a string,
make sure to use double-quotes since it is expecting a JSON format.
The bottom gray-colored console shows you
the status of every function call and a transaction hash.
This window will also give you the deployed contracts address.
You can also see the transaction hash for every transaction in this window.
You can also look at ABI and the bytecode of
your deployed contract by clicking on compile and details tab.
You can also load an already deployed contract and interact with it.
Just paste the contract address in at the at address text box.
This will pull up the contract and give you all the functions that you can call.
To summarize, Remix is an online tool to create,
write, debug, deploy, and interact with smart contracts.
You can use an in-browser network for testing your contracts.
You can also use or connect to
a locally running Ethereum node or you can also
connect to any of your public networks using MetaMask.
Now that we have a clear understanding of how Remix works,
let's learn solidity language.
I will be using Remix as our tool to learn and write code from now on.